

Siamese cats have very distinct coat colors and body types that make them stand out in the kitty crowd, but they are also famous for their rambunctious and loyal personalities. Your cat may be part Siamese if they display some of the traits discussed below.

Siamese cats carry the allure of a very dignified history that intrigues many cat lovers. According to BeChewy, Siamese cats are “one of the oldest cat breeds in the world” and were bred in Thailand (formerly known as Siam) before their introduction to the Western Hemisphere. The breed debuted in the US when President Hayes received a Siamese cat as a diplomatic gesture from Thai representatives in 1878. Cat enthusiasts in the US and England were quick to procure their own Siamese cats and begin breeding them.

Through the ages, Siamese cats continue to exhibit pointed faces and large ears, but there are some variations in their physical characteristics. Experts at The Discerning Cat blog explain that not all Siamese have their breed’s signature blue eyes, as green and yellow are also a possibility. Furthermore, coat patterns can vary by age. Be Chewy writes that “Siamese kittens, born solid white or cream, slowly develop their darker face, legs and tail as they mature.” Siamese cats also have a distinct body type. The Discerning Cat blog states that cats with particularly “sleek, muscular bodies” and “long, slender legs” are likely to be part Siamese.

Many owners of Siamese cats describe their felines as full of personality. The typical Siamese cat is very curious and also fond of nature, as detailed in the blog Life with Siamese Cats. “Siamese cats kept indoors can become bored and neurotic if they don't have enough to entertain them,” so highly engaging cat furniture such as scratchers and cat trees are crucial to keeping them out of trouble. Furthermore, Siamese cats get lonely easily and ”[a]lthough they have a sociable and generally outgoing nature, this possessive bond with their owners may sometimes make them aloof and shy with strangers.”

Some specific behaviors set Siamese apart from other breeds. As described by The Discerning Cat, “Siamese cats are notoriously vocal and love to communicate with their owners. They are known for their loud, distinctive meows and often follow their owners around the house, chatting away.”

If your cat is part Siamese, there are some health concerns common to the breed that you should be aware of. Veterinarians at BeChewy caution that “Siamese are more prone to sinus and respiratory issues given the angular shape of their faces, as well as an increased frequency of dental problems.” Siamese cats are also more likely to develop eye conditions, namely crossed-eyes, as well as the more harmful effects of Progressive Retinal Atrophy (PRA), a genetic condition that can cause blindness.

However, as with any breed, the only way to be absolutely certain if your cat has Siamese genes is to conduct DNA testing. If you are looking to adopt a Siamese or part-Siamese cat, BeChewy recommends that you consider adopting from a rescue organization that specializes in caring for Siamese cats, such as the National Siamese Cat Club (https://www.nationalsiamese.com/rescue.htm).

Quote of the day: “Siamese Cats have a way of staring at you. Those who have walked in on the Queen cleaning her teeth will know the expression.” - Douglas Adams

Sources:

“6 Key Signs My Cat is a Siamese Mix Owners Need to Know”, The Discerning Cat

https://thediscerningcat.com/signs-my-cat-is-a-siamese-mix/

“Siamese Cat Breed: Facts, Temperament and Care Info”, BeChewy

https://be.chewy.com/siamese-cat-breed-facts-temperament-care-info/

“The Siamese Cat Personality. Cats with Attitude!”, Life with Siamese Cats

https://www.life-with-siamese-cats.com/siamese-cat-personality.html

    #cat breeds #Siamese cat traits #Siamese cats 